# Missing_Value
This was a java project that I created as a part of my final for my AP Computer Science class.

For this program, I was tasked to return the smallest positive integer that is not present in nums, given an unsorted integer array nums. When I was thinking of an algorithm for this program, I initially wanted to create a separate array and use it to find the missing value. Though, I realized that it would be more efficient to sort the array nums and check for a missing number in the array. After initializing variable num as the length of the array and variable missing as 0, I sort the array nums. I use a for loop to traverse the array, checking if the number at position i is equal to the number before it +1, therefore checking if the numbers are consecutive. If they are not consecutive, I declare the variable missing as the number at nums[i-1]+1. This ensures that it will be the smallest missing value, regardless of the difference between position [i-1] and position [i]. Otherwise, if the numbers are all consecutive, then there is a possibility that either 1 is the smallest missing number or the next number in the consecutive sequence is the smallest missing number. To do this, I check if the first value in the array is 1 within my else statement. If it is, then the missing number is declared as the next number in the consecutive sequence, because there is no missing value in between the integers in the array. Otherwise, if the starting value in the array is not 1, then 1 is declared as the smallest missing value because that is the only other possibility. I check this program by creating an array in a separate main method, and using test cases which include sequences missing 1, missing a number in between the largest and smallest integers, and having a full consecutive sequence of numbers. I print out the call to this method, passing in my test array. 
